Welcome.
As we walk with Jesus through the last weeks of his life,
This week we're in the town of Capernaum.
This was Jesus's hometown.
And a place where he did a lot of his teaching.
And performed many amazing miracles.
He even raised Jairus's daughter from the dead there.
What might we guess about the people of Capernaum?
Knowing that they had a front row seat.
To the amazing things Jesus was saying
And the miraculous things he was doing.
We might expect many of them to become enthusiastic followers of the Messiah.
After all,,
Don't we sometimes think, "Wow, I just wish Jesus could be right here in the room with me."
That would take care of my dough. That would help me understand who he really is.
Not so fast, says Matthew.
In chapter 11, verse 12,
He says, "and you, capernaum."
Will you be lifted up to the heavens?
No, you will go down to Hades.
For the miracles that were performed in you
Had been performed inside them.
It would have remained to this day.
Jesus takes this nice little Jewish town of Capernaum.
And contrasts it
with the evil city of Sodom.
That God destroyed in his wrath.
during the time of Abraham.
And Jesus finds Capernaum lacking.
We don't know.
The Bible doesn't tell us
What it was that caused the members of Capernaum, the people who lived there,
To reject Jesus.
Maybe they were bound by rules and tradition.
Maybe they were distracted by their everyday lives.
Maybe they heard Jesus teaching.
That you had to become poor in spirit.
Like a little child in humility and trust.
And they said,
Not for me.
Maybe they just got used to having Jesus around.
And they forgot the wonder.
Of the kingdom of heaven that he taught.
This amazing, new, beautiful countercultural.
Thing he was bringing into existence.
The lesson of Capernaum
Is that complacency is a terrible entrapping sin.
When we read God's Word,
And don't take it to heart.
When we worship
With our minds somewhere else,
When we don't look for the ways God is at work around us,
And follow him in those words.
We, too, run the risks.
Are somehow missing the kingdom of heaven.
Because we've missed its king.
But Jesus
He keeps going back to Capernaum.
He keeps blessing them. He keeps teaching them. He keeps demonstrating for them.
The loving heart of his father that wants none of them to perish.
So this Lent
Let's reject our own complacency.
And receive from Jesus.
The loving embrace he wants to offer.